man7.org > Linux > man-pages
Linux/UNIX system programming training  
* * *
# pcp-atop(1) -- Linux manual page
NAME | SYNOPSIS | DESCRIPTION | COLORS | GPU STATISTICS GATHERING |
INTERACTIVE COMMANDS | PCP DATA STORAGE | OUTPUT DESCRIPTION | OUTPUT
DESCRIPTION - SYSTEM LEVEL | OUTPUT DESCRIPTION - PROCESS LEVEL | PARSEABLE
OUTPUT | SIGNALS | EXAMPLES | NOTES | FILES | PCP ENVIRONMENT | SEE ALSO |
COLOPHON  
    PCP-ATOP(1)              General Commands Manual             PCP-ATOP(1)
## NAME         top
           pcp-atop - Advanced System and Process Monitor
## SYNOPSIS         top
           Interactive Usage:
           pcp [pcp options] atop [-aAcCdDfFgGmMnNopRsuvxyY1] [-L linelen]
           [-Plabel[,label]... [-Z]] [interval [samples]]
           Writing and reading PCP archive folios:
           pcp atop -w folio [-a] [-S] [interval [samples]]
           pcp atop -r folio [-AcCdDfFgGmMnNopRsuvxy1] [-b [yy-mm-dd] hh:mm]
           [-e yy-mm-dd] hh:mm] [-L linelen] [-Plabel[,label]... [-Z]]
           [interval [samples]]
## DESCRIPTION         top
           The program pcp-atop is an interactive monitor to view various
           aspects of load on a system.  It shows the occupation of the most
           critical hardware resources (from a performance point of view) on
           system level, i.e. cpu, memory, disk and network.
           It also shows which processes are responsible for the indicated
           load with respect to cpu and memory load on process level.  Disk
           load is shown per process if "storage accounting" is active in
           the kernel.
           Every interval (default: 10 seconds) information is shown about
           the resource occupation on system level (cpu, memory, disks and
           network layers), followed by a list of processes which have been
           active during the last interval (note that all processes that
           were unchanged during the last interval are not shown, unless the
           key 'a' has been pressed or unless sorting on memory occupation
           is done).  If the list of active processes does not entirely fit
           on the screen, only the top of the list is shown (sorted in order
           of activity).
           The intervals are repeated till the number of samples (specified
           as command argument) is reached, or till the key 'q' is pressed
           in interactive mode.
           When invoked via the pcp(1) command, the PCPIntro(1) options
           -A/--align, -a/--archive, -h/--host, -O/--origin, -S/--start,
           -s/--samples, -T/--finish, -t/--interval, -v/--version,
           -z/--hostzone and -z/--timezone become indirectly available.
           Additionally, the --hotproc option can be used to request the
           per-process PCP metrics be used instead of the default proc
           metrics from pmdaproc(1).
           When pcp-atop is started, it checks whether the standard output
           channel is connected to a screen, or to a file/pipe.  In the
           first case it produces screen control codes (via the ncurses
           library) and behaves interactively; in the second case it
           produces flat ASCII-output.
           In interactive mode, the output of pcp-atop scales dynamically to
           the current dimensions of the screen/window.
           If the window is resized horizontally, columns will be added or
           removed automatically. For this purpose, every column has a
           particular weight.  The columns with the highest weights that fit
           within the current width will be shown.
           If the window is resized vertically, lines of the process/thread
           list will be added or removed automatically.
           Furthermore in interactive mode the output of pcp-atop can be
           controlled by pressing particular keys.  However it is also
           possible to specify such key as flag on the command line.  In
           that case pcp-atop switches to the indicated mode on beforehand;
           this mode can be modified again interactively.  Specifying such
           key as flag is especially useful when running pcp-atop with
           output to a pipe or file (non-interactively).  These flags are
           the same as the keys that can be pressed in interactive mode (see
           section INTERACTIVE COMMANDS).
           Additional flags are available to support storage of pcp-atop
           data in PCP archive format (see section PCP DATA STORAGE).
## COLORS         top
           For the resource consumption on system level, pcp-atop uses
           colors to indicate that a critical occupation percentage has been
           (almost) reached.  A critical occupation percentage means that is
           likely that this load causes a noticeable negative performance
           influence for applications using this resource.  The critical
           percentage depends on the type of resource: e.g. the performance
           influence of a disk with a busy percentage of 80% might be more
           noticeable for applications/user than a CPU with a busy
           percentage of 90%.
           Currently pcp-atop uses the following default values to calculate
           a weighted percentage per resource:
            Processor
                A busy percentage of 90% or higher is considered `critical'.
            Disk
                A busy percentage of 70% or higher is considered `critical'.
            Network
                A busy percentage of 90% or higher for the load of an
                interface is considered `critical'.
            Memory
                An occupation percentage of 90% is considered `critical'.
                Notice that this occupation percentage is the accumulated
                memory consumption of the kernel (including slab) and all
                processes; the memory for the page cache (`cache' and `buff'
                in the MEM-line) and the reclaimable part of the slab
                (`slrec`) is not implied!
                If the number of pages swapped out (`swout' in the PAG-line)
                is larger than 10 per second, the memory resource is
                considered `critical'.  A value of at least 1 per second is
                considered `almost critical'.
                If the committed virtual memory exceeds the limit (`vmcom'
                and `vmlim' in the SWP-line), the SWP-line is colored due to
                overcommitting the system.
            Swap
                An occupation percentage of 80% is considered `critical'
                because swap space might be completely exhausted in the near
                future; it is not critical from a performance point-of-view.
           These default values can be modified in the configuration file
           (see separate man-page of pcp-atoprc(5)).
           When a resource exceeds its critical occupation percentage, the
           concerning values in the screen line are colored red by default.
           When a resource exceeded (default) 80% of its critical percentage
           (so it is almost critical), the concerning values in the screen
           line are colored cyan by default.  This `almost critical
           percentage' (one value for all resources) can be modified in the
           configuration file (see separate man-page of pcp-atoprc(5)).
           The default colors red and cyan can be modified in the
           configuration file as well (see separate man-page of
           pcp-atoprc(5)).
           With the key 'x' (or flag -x), the use of colors can be
           suppressed.
## GPU STATISTICS GATHERING         top
           GPU statistics can be gathered by pmdanvidia(1) which is a
           separate data collection daemon process.  It gathers cumulative
           utilization counters of every Nvidia GPU in the system, as well
           as utilization counters of every process that uses a GPU.  When
           pcp-atop notices that the daemon is active, it reads these GPU
           utilization counters with every interval.
           Find a description about the utilization counters in the section
           OUTPUT DESCRIPTION.
## INTERACTIVE COMMANDS         top
           When running pcp-atop interactively (no output redirection), keys
           can be pressed to control the output.  In general, lower case
           keys can be used to show other information for the active
           processes and upper case keys can be used to influence the sort
           order of the active process/thread list.
           g    Show generic output (default).
                Per process the following fields are shown in case of a
                window-width of 80 positions: process-id, cpu consumption
                during the last interval in system and user mode, the
                virtual and resident memory growth of the process.
                The subsequent columns depend on the used kernel:
                When the kernel supports "storage accounting" (>= 2.6.20),
                the data transfer for read/write on disk, the status and
                exit code are shown for each process.  When the kernel does
                not support "storage accounting", the username, number of
                threads in the thread group, the status and exit code are
                shown.
                The last columns contain the state, the occupation
                percentage for the chosen resource (default: cpu) and the
                process name.
                When more than 80 positions are available, other information
                is added.
           m    Show memory related output.
                Per process the following fields are shown in case of a
                window-width of 80 positions: process-id, minor and major
                memory faults, size of virtual shared text, total virtual
                process size, total resident process size, virtual and
                resident growth during last interval, memory occupation
                percentage and process name.
                When more than 80 positions are available, other information
                is added.
                For memory consumption, always all processes are shown (also
                the processes that were not active during the interval).
           d    Show disk-related output.
                When "storage accounting" is active in the kernel, the
                following fields are shown: process-id, amount of data read
                from disk, amount of data written to disk, amount of data
                that was written but has been withdrawn again (WCANCL), disk
                occupation percentage and process name.
           s    Show scheduling characteristics.
                Per process the following fields are shown in case of a
                window-width of 80 positions: process-id, number of threads
                in state 'running' (R), number of threads in state
                'interruptible sleeping' (S), number of threads in state
                'uninterruptible sleeping' (D), scheduling policy (normal
                timesharing, realtime round-robin, realtime fifo), nice
                value, priority, realtime priority, current processor,
                status, exit code, state, the occupation percentage for the
                chosen resource and the process name.
                When more than 80 positions are available, other information
                is added.
           v    Show various process characteristics.
                Per process the following fields are shown in case of a
                window-width of 80 positions: process-id, user name and
                group, start date and time, status (e.g. exit code if the
                process has finished), state, the occupation percentage for
                the chosen resource and the process name.
                When more than 80 positions are available, other information
                is added.
           c    Show the command line of the process.
                Per process the following fields are shown: process-id, the
                occupation percentage for the chosen resource and the
                command line including arguments.
           X    Show cgroup v2 information.
                Per process the following fields are shown: process-id, the
                command name, and the cgroup path name (horizontally
                scrollable).
           e    Show GPU utilization.
                Per process at least the following fields are shown:
                process-id, range of GPU numbers on which the process
                currently runs, GPU busy percentage on all GPUs, memory busy
                percentage (i.e. read and write accesses on memory) on all
                GPUs, memory occupation at the moment of the sample, average
                memory occupation during the sample, and GPU percentage.
                When the pmdanvidia daemon does not run with root
                privileges, the GPU busy percentage and the memory busy
                percentage are not available on process level.  In that
                case, the GPU percentage on process level reflects the GPU
                memory occupation instead of the GPU busy percentage (which
                is preferred).
           o    Show the user-defined line of the process.
                In the configuration file the keyword ownprocline can be
                specified with the description of a user-defined output-
                line.
                Refer to the man-page of pcp-atoprc(5) for a detailed
                description.
           y    Show the individual threads within a process (toggle).
                Single-threaded processes are still shown as one line.
                For multi-threaded processes, one line represents the
                process while additional lines show the activity per
                individual thread (in a different color).  Depending on the
                option 'a' (all or active toggle), all threads are shown or
                only the threads that were active during the last interval.
                Depending on the option 'Y' (sort threads), the threads per
                process will be sorted on the chosen sort criterium or not.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           Y    Sort the threads per process when combined with option 'y'
                (toggle).
           u    Show the process activity accumulated per user.
                Per user the following fields are shown: number of processes
                active or terminated during last interval (or in total if
                combined with command `a'), accumulated cpu consumption
                during last interval in system and user mode, the current
                virtual and resident memory space consumed by active
                processes (or all processes of the user if combined with
                command `a').
                When "storage accounting" is active in the kernel, the
                accumulated read and write throughput on disk is shown.
                When the pmdabcc(1) module `netproc' has been installed, the
                number of receive and send network calls are shown.
                The last columns contain the accumulated occupation
                percentage for the chosen resource (default: cpu) and the
                user name.
           p    Show the process activity accumulated per program (i.e.
                process name).
                Per program the following fields are shown: number of
                processes active or terminated during last interval (or in
                total if combined with command `a'), accumulated cpu
                consumption during last interval in system and user mode,
                the current virtual and resident memory space consumed by
                active processes (or all processes of the user if combined
                with command `a').
                When "storage accounting" is active in the kernel, the
                accumulated read and write throughput on disk is shown.
                When the pmdabcc(1) module `netproc' has been installed, the
                number of receive and send network calls are shown.
                The last columns contain the accumulated occupation
                percentage for the chosen resource (default: cpu) and the
                program name.
           j    Show the process activity accumulated per Docker container.
                Per container the following fields are shown: number of
                processes active or terminated during last interval (or in
                total if combined with command `a'), accumulated cpu
                consumption during last interval in system and user mode,
                the current virtual and resident memory space consumed by
                active processes (or all processes of the user if combined
                with command `a').
                When "storage accounting" is active in the kernel, the
                accumulated read and write throughput on disk is shown.
                When the pmdabcc(1) module `netproc' has been installed, the
                number of receive and send network calls are shown.
                The last columns contain the accumulated occupation
                percentage for the chosen resource (default: cpu) and the
                Docker container id (CID).
           C    Sort the current list in the order of cpu consumption
                (default).  The one-but-last column changes to ``CPU''.
           E    Sort the current list in the order of GPU utilization
                (preferred, but only applicable when the pmdanvidia daemon
                runs under root privileges) or the order of GPU memory
                occupation).  The one-but-last column changes to ``GPU''.
           M    Sort the current list in the order of resident memory
                consumption.  The one-but-last column changes to ``MEM''.
                In case of sorting on memory, the full process list will be
                shown (not only the active processes).
           D    Sort the current list in the order of disk accesses issued.
                The one-but-last column changes to ``DSK''.
           N    Sort the current list in the order of network bandwidth
                (received and transmitted).  The one-but-last column changes
                to ``NET''.
           A    Sort the current list automatically in the order of the most
                busy system resource during this interval.  The one-but-last
                column shows either ``ACPU'', ``AMEM'', ``ADSK'' or ``ANET''
                (the preceding 'A' indicates automatic sorting-order).  The
                most busy resource is determined by comparing the weighted
                busy-percentages of the system resources, as described
                earlier in the section COLORS.
                This option remains valid until another sorting-order is
                explicitly selected again.
                A sorting-order for disk is only possible when "storage
                accounting" is active.  A sorting-order for network is only
                possible when the pmdabcc(1) module `netproc' has been
                installed.
           Miscellaneous interactive commands:
           ?    Request for help information (also the key 'h' can be
                pressed).
           V    Request for version information (version number and date).
           R    Gather and calculate the proportional set size of processes
                (toggle).  Gathering of all values that are needed to
                calculate the PSIZE of a process is a very time-consuming
                task, so this key should only be active when analyzing the
                resident memory consumption of processes.
           W    Get the WCHAN per thread (toggle).  Gathering of the WCHAN
                string per thread is a relatively time-consuming task, so
                this key should only be made active when analyzing the
                reason for threads to be in sleep state.
           x    Suppress colors to highlight critical resources (toggle).
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           z    The pause key can be used to freeze the current situation in
                order to investigate the output on the screen.  While pcp-
                atop is paused, the keys described above can be pressed to
                show other information about the current list of processes.
                Whenever the pause key is pressed again, pcp-atop will
                continue with the next sample.
           i    Modify the interval timer (default: 10 seconds).  If an
                interval timer of 0 is entered, the interval timer is
                switched off.  In that case a new sample can only be
                triggered manually by pressing the key 't'.
           t    Trigger a new sample manually.  This key can be pressed if
                the current sample should be finished before the timer has
                exceeded, or if no timer is set at all (interval timer
                defined as 0).  In the latter case pcp-atop can be used as a
                stopwatch to measure the load being caused by a particular
                application transaction, without knowing on beforehand how
                many seconds this transaction will last.
                When viewing the contents of an archive folio, this key can
                be used to show the next sample from the folio.
           T    When viewing the contents of an archive folio, this key can
                be used to show the previous sample from the folio.
           b    When viewing the contents of an archive folio, this key can
                be used to move to a certain timestamp within the file
                (either forward or backward).
           r    Reset all counters to zero to see the system and process
                activity since boot again.
                When viewing the contents of an archive, this key can be
                used to rewind to the beginning of the file again.
           U    Specify a search string for specific user names as a regular
                expression.  From now on, only (active) processes will be
                shown from a user which matches the regular expression.  The
                system statistics are still system wide.  If the Enter-key
                is pressed without specifying a name, (active) processes of
                all users will be shown again.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           I    Specify a list with one or more PIDs to be selected.  From
                now on, only processes will be shown with a PID which
                matches one of the given list.  The system statistics are
                still system wide.  If the Enter-key is pressed without
                specifying a PID, all (active) processes will be shown
                again.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           P    Specify a search string for specific process names as a
                regular expression.  From now on, only processes will be
                shown with a name which matches the regular expression.  The
                system statistics are still system wide.  If the Enter-key
                is pressed without specifying a name, all (active) processes
                will be shown again.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           /    Specify a specific command line search string as a regular
                expression.  From now on, only processes will be shown with
                a command line which matches the regular expression.  The
                system statistics are still system wide.  If the Enter-key
                is pressed without specifying a string, all (active)
                processes will be shown again.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           J    Specify a Docker container id of 12 (hexadecimal)
                characters.  From now on, only processes will be shown that
                run in that specific Docker container (CID).  The system
                statistics are still system wide.  If the Enter-key is
                pressed without specifying a container id, all (active)
                processes will be shown again.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           Q    Specify a comma-separated list of process state characters.
                From now on, only processes will be shown that are in those
                specific process states.  Accepted states are: R (running),
                S (sleeping), D (disk sleep), T (stopped), t (tracing stop),
                X (dead), Z (zombie) and P (parked).  The system statistics
                are still system wide.  If the Enter-key is pressed without
                specifying a state, all (active) processes will be shown
                again.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           S    Specify search strings for specific logical volume names,
                specific disk names and specific network interface names.
                All search strings are interpreted as a regular expressions.
                From now on, only those system resources are shown that
                match the concerning regular expression.  If the Enter-key
                is pressed without specifying a search string, all (active)
                system resources of that type will be shown again.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           a    The `all/active' key can be used to toggle between only
                showing/accumulating the processes that were active during
                the last interval (default) or showing/accumulating all
                processes.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           G    By default, pcp-atop shows/accumulates the processes that
                are alive and the processes that are exited during the last
                interval.  With this key (toggle), showing/accumulating the
                processes that are exited can be suppressed.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           f    Show a fixed (maximum) number of header lines for system
                resources (toggle).  By default only the lines are shown
                about system resources (CPUs, paging, logical volumes,
                disks, network interfaces) that really have been active
                during the last interval.  With this key you can force pcp-
                atop to show lines of inactive resources as well.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           F    Suppress sorting of system resources (toggle).  By default
                system resources (CPUs, logical volumes, disks, network
                interfaces) are sorted on utilization.
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           1    Show relevant counters as an average per second (in the
                format `..../s') instead of as a total during the interval
                (toggle).
                Whether this key is active or not can be seen in the header
                line.
           l    Limit the number of system level lines for the counters per-
                cpu, the active disks and the network interfaces.  By
                default lines are shown of all CPUs, disks and network
                interfaces which have been active during the last interval.
                Limiting these lines can be useful on systems with huge
                number CPUs, disks or interfaces in order to be able to run
                pcp-atop on a screen/window with e.g. only 24 lines.
                For all mentioned resources the maximum number of lines can
                be specified interactively. When using the flag -l the
                maximum number of per-cpu lines is set to 0, the maximum
                number of disk lines to 5 and the maximum number of
                interface lines to 3.  These values can be modified again in
                interactive mode.
           k    Send a signal to an active process (a.k.a. kill a process).
           q    Quit the program.
           PgDn Show the next page of the process/thread list.
                With the arrow-down key the list can be scrolled downwards
                with single lines.
           ^F   Show the next page of the process/thread list (forward).
                With the arrow-down key the list can be scrolled downwards
                with single lines.
           PgUp Show the previous page of the process/thread list.
                With the arrow-up key the list can be scrolled upwards with
                single lines.
           ^B   Show the previous page of the process/thread list
                (backward).
                With the arrow-up key the list can be scrolled upwards with
                single lines.
           ^L   Redraw the screen.
## PCP DATA STORAGE         top
           In order to store system and process level statistics for long-
           term analysis (e.g. to check the system load and the active
           processes running yesterday between 3:00 and 4:00 PM), pcp-atop
           can store the system and process level statistics in the PCP
           archive format, as an archive folio (see mkaf(1)).
           All information about processes and threads is stored in the
           archive.
           The interval (default: 10 seconds) and number of samples
           (default: infinite) can be passed as last arguments.  Instead of
           the number of samples, the flag -S can be used to indicate that
           pcp-atop should finish anyhow before midnight.
           A PCP archive can be read and visualized again with the -r
           option.  The argument is a comma-separated list of names, each of
           which may be the base name of an archive or the name of a
           directory containing one or more archives.  If no argument is
           specified, the file $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/HOST/YYYYMMDD is opened
           for input (where YYYYMMDD are digits representing the current
           date, and HOST is the hostname of the machine being logged).  If
           a filename is specified in the format YYYYMMDD (representing any
           valid date), the file $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/HOST/YYYYMMDD is
           opened.  If a filename with the symbolic name y is specified,
           yesterday's daily logfile is opened (this can be repeated so
           'yyyy' indicates the logfile of four days ago).
           The samples from the file can be viewed interactively by using
           the key 't' to show the next sample, the key 'T' to show the
           previous sample, the key 'b' to branch to a particular time or
           the key 'r' to rewind to the begin of the file.
           When output is redirected to a file or pipe, pcp-atop prints all
           samples in plain ASCII.  The default line length is 80 characters
           in that case; with the flag -L followed by an alternate line
           length, more (or less) columns will be shown.
           With the flag -b (begin time) and/or -e (end time) followed by a
           time argument of the form [YY-MM-DD] HH:MM, a certain time period
           within the archive can be selected.
## OUTPUT DESCRIPTION         top
           The first sample shows the system level activity since boot (the
           elapsed time in the header shows the time since boot).  Note that
           particular counters could have reached their maximum value
           (several times) and started by zero again, so do not rely on
           these figures.
           For every sample pcp-atop first shows the lines related to system
           level activity. If a particular system resource has not been used
           during the interval, the entire line related to this resource is
           suppressed.  So the number of system level lines may vary for
           each sample.
           After that a list is shown of processes which have been active
           during the last interval.  This list is by default sorted on cpu
           consumption, but this order can be changed by the keys which are
           previously described.
           If values have to be shown by pcp-atop which do not fit in the
           column width, another format is used. If e.g. a cpu-consumption
           of 233216 milliseconds should be shown in a column width of 4
           positions, it is shown as `233s' (in seconds).  For large memory
           figures, another unit is chosen if the value does not fit (Mb
           instead of Kb, Gb instead of Mb, Tb instead of Gb, ...).  For
           other values, a kind of exponent notation is used (value
           123456789 shown in a column of 5 positions gives 123e6).
## OUTPUT DESCRIPTION - SYSTEM LEVEL         top
           The system level information consists of the following output
           lines:
           PRC  Process and thread level totals.
                This line contains the total cpu time consumed in system
                mode (`sys') and in user mode (`user'), the total number of
                processes present at this moment (`#proc'), the total number
                of threads present at this moment in state `running'
                (`#trun'), `sleeping interruptible' (`#tslpi') and `sleeping
                uninterruptible' (`#tslpu'), the number of zombie processes
                (`#zombie'), the number of clone system calls (`clones'),
                and the number of processes that ended during the interval
                (`#exit') when process accounting is used. Instead of
                `#exit` the last column may indicate that process accounting
                could not be activated (`no procacct`).
                If the screen-width does not allow all of these counters,
                only a relevant subset is shown.
           CPU  CPU utilization.
                At least one line is shown for the total occupation of all
                CPUs together.
                In case of a multi-processor system, an additional line is
                shown for every individual processor (with `cpu' in lower
                case), sorted on activity.  Inactive CPUs will not be shown
                by default.  The lines showing the per-cpu occupation
                contain the cpu number in the field combined with the wait
                percentage.
                Every line contains the percentage of cpu time spent in
                kernel mode by all active processes (`sys'), the percentage
                of cpu time consumed in user mode (`user') for all active
                processes (including processes running with a nice value
                larger than zero), the percentage of cpu time spent for
                interrupt handling (`irq') including softirq, the percentage
                of unused cpu time while no processes were waiting for disk
                I/O (`idle'), and the percentage of unused cpu time while at
                least one process was waiting for disk I/O (`wait').
                In case of per-cpu occupation, the cpu number and the wait
                percentage (`w') for that cpu.  The number of lines showing
                the per-cpu occupation can be limited.
                For virtual machines, the steal-percentage (`steal') shows
                the percentage of cpu time stolen by other virtual machines
                running on the same hardware.
                For physical machines hosting one or more virtual machines,
                the guest-percentage (`guest') shows the percentage of cpu
                time used by the virtual machines.  Notice that this
                percentage overlaps the user-percentage!
                When PMC performance monitoring counters are supported by
                the CPU and the kernel (and pmdaperfevent(1) runs with root
                privileges), the number of instructions per CPU cycle
                (`ipc') is shown.  The first sample always shows the value
                'initial', because the counters are just activated at the
                moment that pcp-atop is started.
                When the CPU busy percentage is high and the IPC is less
                than 1.0, it is likely that the CPU is frequently waiting
                for memory access during instruction execution (larger CPU
                caches or faster memory might be helpful to improve
                performance).  When the CPU busy percentage is high and the
                IPC is greater than 1.0, it is likely that the CPU is
                instruction-bound (more/faster cores might be helpful to
                improve performance).
                Furthermore, per CPU the effective number of cycles (`cycl')
                is shown.  This value can reach the current CPU frequency if
                such CPU is 100% busy.  When an idle CPU is halted, the
                number of effective cycles can be (considerably) lower than
                the current frequency.
                Notice that the average instructions per cycle and number of
                cycles is shown in the CPU line for all CPUs.
                See also:
                http://www.brendangregg.com/blog/2017-05-09/cpu-utilization-is-wrong.html 
                In case of frequency scaling, all previously mentioned CPU
                percentages are relative to the used scaling of the CPU
                during the interval.  If a CPU has been active for e.g. 50%
                in user mode during the interval while the frequency scaling
                of that CPU was 40%, only 20% of the full capacity of the
                CPU has been used in user mode.
                In case that the kernel module `cpufreq_stats' is active
                (after issuing `modprobe cpufreq_stats'), the average
                frequency (`avgf') and the average scaling percentage
                (`avgscal') is shown. Otherwise the current frequency
                (`curf') and the current scaling percentage (`curscal') is
                shown at the moment that the sample is taken.  Notice that
                average values for frequency and scaling are shown in the
                CPU line for every CPU.
                Frequency scaling statistics are only gathered for systems
                with maximum 8 CPUs, since gathering of these values per CPU
                is very time consuming.
                If the screen-width does not allow all of these counters,
                only a relevant subset is shown.
           CPL  CPU load information.
                This line contains the load average figures reflecting the
                number of threads that are available to run on a CPU (i.e.
                part of the runqueue) or that are waiting for disk I/O.
                These figures are averaged over 1 (`avg1'), 5 (`avg5') and
                15 (`avg15') minutes.
                Furthermore the number of context switches (`csw'), the
                number of serviced interrupts (`intr') and the number of
                available CPUs are shown.
                If the screen-width does not allow all of these counters,
                only a relevant subset is shown.
           GPU  GPU utilization (Nvidia).
                Read the section GPU STATISTICS GATHERING in this document
                to find the details about the activation of the pmdanvidia
                daemon.
                In the first column of every line, the bus-id (last nine
                characters) and the GPU number are shown.  The subsequent
                columns show the percentage of time that one or more kernels
                were executing on the GPU (`gpubusy'), the percentage of
                time that global (device) memory was being read or written
                (`membusy'), the occupation percentage of memory (`memocc'),
                the total memory (`total'), the memory being in use at the
                moment of the sample (`used'), the average memory being in
                use during the sample time (`usavg'), the number of
                processes being active on the GPU at the moment of the
                sample (`#proc'), and the type of GPU.
                If the screen-width does not allow all of these counters,
                only a relevant subset is shown.
                The number of lines showing the GPUs can be limited.
           MEM  Memory occupation (two lines).
                These lines contain the total amount of physical memory
                (`tot'), the amount of memory which is currently free
                (`free'), the amount of memory in use as page cache
                including the total resident shared memory (`cache'), the
                amount of memory within the page cache that has to be
                flushed to disk (`dirty'), the amount of memory used for
                filesystem meta data (`buff'), the amount of memory being
                used for kernel mallocs (`slab'), the amount of slab memory
                that is reclaimable (`slrec'), the resident size of shared
                memory including tmpfs (`shmem'), the resident size of
                shared memory (`shrss') the amount of shared memory that is
                currently swapped (`shswp'), the amount of memory that is
                currently used for page tables (`pgtab'), the number of NUMA
                nodes in this system (`numnode'), the amount of memory that
                is currently claimed by vmware's balloon driver (`vmbal'),
                the amount of memory that is currently claimed by the ARC
                (cache) of ZFSonlinux (`zfarc'), the amount of memory that
                is claimed for huge pages (`hptot'), the amount of huge page
                memory that is really in use (`hpuse'), the amount of memory
                that is used for TCP sockets (`tcps'), and the amount of
                memory that is used for UDP sockets (`udps').
                If the screen-width does not allow all of these counters,
                only a relevant subset is shown.
           SWP  Swap occupation and overcommit info.
                This line contains the total amount of swap space on disk
                (`tot') and the amount of free swap space (`free'), the size
                of the swap cache (`swcac'), the total size of compressed
                storage in zswap (`zpool'), the total size of the compressed
                pages stored in zswap (`zstor'), the total size of the
                memory used for KSM (`ksuse', i.e. shared), and the total
                size of the memory saved (deduped) by KSM (`kssav', i.e.
                sharing).
                Furthermore the committed virtual memory space (`vmcom') and
                the maximum limit of the committed space (`vmlim', which is
                by default swap size plus 50% of memory size) is shown.  The
                committed space is the reserved virtual space for all
                allocations of private memory space for processes.  The
                kernel only verifies whether the committed space exceeds the
                limit if strict overcommit handling is configured
                (vm.overcommit_memory is 2).
           NUM  Memory utilization per NUMA node (not shown for single NUMA
                node).
                This line shows the total amount of physical memory of this
                node (`tot'), the amount of free memory (`free'), the amount
                of memory for cached file data (`file'), modified cached
                file data (`dirty'), recently used memory (`activ'), less
                recently used memory (`inact'), memory being used for kernel
                mallocs (`slab'), the amount of slab memory that is
                reclaimable (`slrec'), shared memory including tmpfs
                (`shmem'), total huge pages (`hptot') and the fragmentation
                percentage (`frag').
           NUC  CPU utilization per NUMA node (not shown for single NUMA
                node).
                This line shows the utilization percentages of all CPUs
                related to this NUMA node, categorized for  system mode
                (`sys'), user mode (`user'), user mode for niced processes
                (`niced'), idle mode (`idle'), wait mode (`w' preceded by
                the node number), irq mode (`irq'), softirq mode (`sirq'),
                steal mode (`steal'), and guest mode (`guest') overlapping
                user mode.
           PAG  Paging frequency.
                This line contains the number of scanned pages (`scan') due
                to the fact that free memory drops below a particular
                threshold, the number of times that the kernel tries to
                reclaim pages due to an urgent need (`stall'), the number of
                process stalls to run memory compaction to allocate huge
                pages (`compact'), the number of NUMA pages migrated
                (`numamig'), and the total number of memory pages migrated
                successfully e.g. between NUMA nodes or for compaction
                (`migrate') are shown.
                Also the number of memory pages the system read from block
                devices (`pgin'), the number of memory pages the system
                wrote to block devices (`pgout'), the number of memory pages
                the system read from swap space (`swin'), the number of
                memory pages the system wrote to swap space (`swout'), and
                the number of out-of-memory kills (`oomkill').
           PSI  Pressure Stall Information.
                This line contains percentages about resource pressure
                related to CPU, memory and I/O. Certain percentages refer to
                'some' meaning that some processes/threads were delayed due
                to resource overload. Other percentages refer to 'full'
                meaning a loss of overall throughput due to resource
                overload.
                The values `cpusome', `memsome', `memfull', `iosome' and
                `iofull' show the pressure percentage during the entire
                interval.
                The values `cs' (cpu some), `ms' (memory some), `mf' (memory
                full), `is' (I/O some) and `if' (I/O full) each show three
                percentages separated by slashes: pressure percentage over
                the last 10, 60 and 300 seconds.
           LVM/MDD/DSK
                Logical volume/multiple device/disk utilization.
                Per active unit one line is produced, sorted on unit
                activity.  Such line shows the name (e.g. VolGroup00-lvtmp
                for a logical volume or sda for a hard disk), the percentage
                of elapsed time during which I/O requests were issued to the
                device (`busy') (note that for devices serving requests in
                parallel, such as RAID arrays, SSD and NVMe, this number
                does not reflect their performance limits), the number of
                read requests issued (`read'), the number of write requests
                issued (`write'), the number of discard requests issued
                (`discrd') if supported by kernel version, the number of
                KiBytes per read (`KiB/r'), the number of KiBytes per write
                (`KiB/w'), the number of KiBytes per discard (`KiB/d') if
                supported by kernel version, the number of MiBytes per
                second throughput for reads (`MBr/s'), the number of MiBytes
                per second throughput for writes (`MBw/s'), requests issued
                to the device driver but not completed (`inflt'), the
                average queue depth (`avq') and the average number of
                milliseconds needed by a request (`avio') for seek, latency
                and data transfer.
                If the screen-width does not allow all of these counters,
                only a relevant subset is shown.
                The number of lines showing the units can be limited per
                class (LVM, MDD or DSK) with the 'l' key or statically (see
                separate man-page of pcp-atoprc(5)).  By specifying the
                value 0 for a particular class, no lines will be shown any
                more for that class.
           NFM  Network Filesystem (NFS) mount at the client side.
                For each NFS-mounted filesystem, a line is shown that
                contains the mounted server directory, the name of the
                server (`srv'), the total number of bytes physically read
                from the server (`read') and the total number of bytes
                physically written to the server (`write').  Data transfer
                is subdivided in the number of bytes read via normal read()
                system calls (`nread'), the number of bytes written via
                normal read() system calls (`nwrit'), the number of bytes
                read via direct I/O (`dread'), the number of bytes written
                via direct I/O (`dwrit'), the number of bytes read via
                memory mapped I/O pages (`mread'), and the number of bytes
                written via memory mapped I/O pages (`mwrit').
           NFC  Network Filesystem (NFS) client side counters.
                This line contains the number of RPC calls issues by local
                processes (`rpc'), the number of read RPC calls (`read`) and
                write RPC calls (`rpwrite') issued to the NFS server, the
                number of RPC calls being retransmitted (`retxmit') and the
                number of authorization refreshes (`autref').
           NFS  Network Filesystem (NFS) server side counters.
                This line contains the number of RPC calls received from NFS
                clients (`rpc'), the number of read RPC calls received
                (`cread`), the number of write RPC calls received (`cwrit'),
                the number of Megabytes/second returned to read requests by
                clients (`MBcr/s`), the number of Megabytes/second passed in
                write requests by clients (`MBcw/s`), the number of network
                requests handled via TCP (`nettcp'), the number of network
                requests handled via UDP (`netudp'), the number of reply
                cache hits (`rchits'), the number of reply cache misses
                (`rcmiss') and the number of uncached requests (`rcnoca').
                Furthermore some error counters indicating the number of
                requests with a bad format (`badfmt') or a bad authorization
                (`badaut'), and a counter indicating the number of bad
                clients (`badcln').
           NET  Network utilization (TCP/IP).
                One line is shown for activity of the transport layer (TCP
                and UDP), one line for the IP layer and one line per active
                interface.
                For the transport layer, counters are shown concerning the
                number of received TCP segments including those received in
                error (`tcpi'), the number of transmitted TCP segments
                excluding those containing only retransmitted octets
                (`tcpo'), the number of UDP datagrams received (`udpi'), the
                number of UDP datagrams transmitted (`udpo'), the number of
                active TCP opens (`tcpao'), the number of passive TCP opens
                (`tcppo'), the number of TCP output retransmissions
                (`tcprs'), the number of TCP input errors (`tcpie'), the
                number of TCP output resets (`tcpor'), the number of UDP no
                ports (`udpnp'), and the number of UDP input errors
                (`udpie').
                If the screen-width does not allow all of these counters,
                only a relevant subset is shown.
                These counters are related to IPv4 and IPv6 combined.
                For the IP layer, counters are shown concerning the number
                of IP datagrams received from interfaces, including those
                received in error (`ipi'), the number of IP datagrams that
                local higher-layer protocols offered for transmission
                (`ipo'), the number of received IP datagrams which were
                forwarded to other interfaces (`ipfrw'), the number of IP
                datagrams which were delivered to local higher-layer
                protocols (`deliv'), the number of received ICMP datagrams
                (`icmpi'), and the number of transmitted ICMP datagrams
                (`icmpo').
                If the screen-width does not allow all of these counters,
                only a relevant subset is shown.
                These counters are related to IPv4 and IPv6 combined.
                For every active network interface one line is shown, sorted
                on the interface activity.  Such line shows the name of the
                interface and its busy percentage in the first column.  The
                busy percentage for half duplex is determined by comparing
                the interface speed with the number of bits transmitted and
                received per second; for full duplex the interface speed is
                compared with the highest of either the transmitted or the
                received bits.  When the interface speed can not be
                determined (e.g. for the loopback interface), `---' is shown
                instead of the percentage.
                Furthermore the number of received packets (`pcki'), the
                number of transmitted packets (`pcko'), the line speed of
                the interface (`sp'), the effective amount of bits received
                per second (`si'), the effective amount of bits transmitted
                per second (`so'), the number of collisions (`coll'), the
                number of received multicast packets (`mlti'), the number of
                errors while receiving a packet (`erri'), the number of
                errors while transmitting a packet (`erro'), the number of
                received packets dropped (`drpi'), and the number of
                transmitted packets dropped (`drpo').
                If the screen-width does not allow all of these counters,
                only a relevant subset is shown.
                The number of lines showing the network interfaces can be
                limited.
           IFB  Infiniband utilization.
                For every active Infiniband port one line is shown, sorted
                on activity.  Such line shows the name of the port and its
                busy percentage in the first column.  The busy percentage is
                determined by taking the highest of either the transmitted
                or the received bits during the interval, multiplying that
                value by the number of lanes and comparing it against the
                maximum port speed.
                Furthermore the number of received packets divided by the
                number of lanes (`pcki'), the number of transmitted packets
                divided by the number of lanes (`pcko'), the maximum line
                speed (`sp'), the effective amount of bits received per
                second (`si'), the effective amount of bits transmitted per
                second (`so'), and the number of lanes (`lanes').
                If the screen-width does not allow all of these counters,
                only a relevant subset is shown.
                The number of lines showing the Infiniband ports can be
                limited.
## OUTPUT DESCRIPTION - PROCESS LEVEL         top
           Following the system level information, the processes are shown
           from which the resource utilization has changed during the last
           interval.  These processes might have used cpu time or issued
           disk or network requests.  However a process is also shown if
           part of it has been paged out due to lack of memory (while the
           process itself was in sleep state).
           Per process the following fields may be shown (in alphabetical
           order), depending on the current output mode as described in the
           section INTERACTIVE COMMANDS and depending on the current width
           of your window:
           AVGRSZ   The average size of one read-action on disk.
           AVGWSZ   The average size of one write-action on disk.
           BANDWI   Total bandwidth for received TCP and UDP packets
                    consumed by this process (bits-per-second).  This value
                    can be compared with the value `si' on interface level
                    (used bandwidth per interface).
                    This information will only be shown when the pmdabcc(1)
                    module `netproc' has been installed.
           BANDWO   Total bandwidth for sent TCP and UDP packets consumed by
                    this process (bits-per-second).  This value can be
                    compared with the value `so' on interface level (used
                    bandwidth per interface).
                    This information will only be shown when the pmdabcc(1)
                    module `netproc' has been installed.
           BDELAY   Aggregated block I/O delay, i.e. time waiting for disk
                    I/O.
           CGROUP   Path name of the cgroup (version 2) to which this
                    process belongs.  This path name is relative to the
                    cgroup root directory, which is usually
                    `/sys/fs/cgroup'.
           CID      Container ID of 12 hexadecimal digits, referring to the
                    container in which the process/thread is running.  If a
                    process has been started and finished during the last
                    interval, a `?' is shown because the container ID is not
                    part of the standard process accounting record.
           CMD      The name of the process.  This name can be surrounded by
                    "less/greater than" signs (`<name>') which means that
                    the process has finished during the last interval.
                    Behind the abbreviation `CMD' in the header line, the
                    current page number and the total number of pages of the
                    process/thread list are shown.
           COMMAND-LINE
                    The full command line of the process (including
                    arguments). If the length of the command line exceeds
                    the length of the screen line, the arrow keys -> and <-
                    can be used for horizontal scroll.
                    Behind the verb `COMMAND-LINE' in the header line, the
                    current page number and the total number of pages of the
                    process/thread list are shown.
           CPU      The occupation percentage of this process related to the
                    available capacity for this resource on system level.
           CPUNR    The identification of the CPU the (main) thread is
                    running on or has recently been running on.
           CTID     Container ID (OpenVZ).  If a process has been started
                    and finished during the last interval, a `?' is shown
                    because the container ID is not part of the standard
                    process accounting record.
           DSK      The occupation percentage of this process related to the
                    total load that is produced by all processes (i.e. total
                    disk accesses by all processes during the last
                    interval).
                    This information is shown when per process "storage
                    accounting" is active in the kernel.
           EGID     Effective group-id under which this process executes.
           ENDATE   Date that the process has been finished.  If the process
                    is still running, this field shows `active'.
           ENTIME   Time that the process has been finished.  If the process
                    is still running, this field shows `active'.
           ENVID    Virtual environment identified (OpenVZ only).
           EUID     Effective user-id under which this process executes.
           EXC      The exit code of a terminated process (second position
                    of column `ST' is E) or the fatal signal number (second
                    position of column `ST' is S or C).
           FSGID    Filesystem group-id under which this process executes.
           FSUID    Filesystem user-id under which this process executes.
           GPU      When the pmdanvidia daemon does not run with root
                    privileges, the GPU percentage reflects the GPU memory
                    occupation percentage (memory of all GPUs is 100%).
                    When the pmdanvidia daemon runs with root privileges,
                    the GPU percentage reflects the GPU busy percentage.
           GPUBUSY  Busy percentage on all GPUs (one GPU is 100%).
                    When the pmdanvidia daemon does not run with root
                    privileges, this value is not available.
           GPUNUMS  Comma-separated list of GPUs used by the process during
                    the interval.  When the comma-separated list exceeds the
                    width of the column, a hexadecimal value is shown.
           LOCKSZ   The virtual amount of memory being locked (i.e. non-
                    swappable) by this process (or user).
           MAJFLT   The number of page faults issued by this process that
                    have been solved by creating/loading the requested
                    memory page.
           MEM      The occupation percentage of this process related to the
                    available capacity for this resource on system level.
           MEMAVG   Average memory occupation during the interval on all
                    used GPUs.
           MEMBUSY  Busy percentage of memory on all GPUs (one GPU is 100%),
                    i.e.  the time needed for read and write accesses on
                    memory.
                    When the pmdanvidia daemon does not run with root
                    privileges, this value is not available.
           MEMNOW   Memory occupation at the moment of the sample on all
                    used GPUs.
           MINFLT   The number of page faults issued by this process that
                    have been solved by reclaiming the requested memory page
                    from the free list of pages.
           NET      The occupation percentage of this process related to the
                    total load that is produced by all processes (i.e.
                    consumed network bandwidth of all processes during the
                    last interval).
                    This information will only be shown when the pmdabcc(1)
                    module `netproc' has been installed.
           NICE     The more or less static priority that can be given to a
                    process on a scale from -20 (high priority) to +19 (low
                    priority).
           NPROCS   The number of active and terminated processes
                    accumulated for this user or program.
           PID      Process-id.
           POLI     The policies 'norm' (normal, which is SCHED_OTHER),
                    'btch' (batch) and 'idle' refer to timesharing
                    processes.  The policies 'fifo' (SCHED_FIFO) and 'rr'
                    (round robin, which is SCHED_RR) refer to realtime
                    processes.
           PPID     Parent process-id.
           PRI      The process' priority ranges from 0 (highest priority)
                    to 139 (lowest priority).  Priority 0 to 99 are used for
                    realtime processes (fixed priority independent of their
                    behavior) and priority 100 to 139 for timesharing
                    processes (variable priority depending on their recent
                    CPU consumption and the nice value).
           PSIZE    The proportional memory size of this process (or user).
                    Every process shares resident memory with other
                    processes.  E.g. when a particular program is started
                    several times, the code pages (text) are only loaded
                    once in memory and shared by all incarnations.  Also the
                    code of shared libraries is shared by all processes
                    using that shared library, as well as shared memory and
                    memory-mapped files.  For the PSIZE calculation of a
                    process, the resident memory of a process that is shared
                    with other processes is divided by the number of
                    sharers.  This means, that every process is accounted
                    for a proportional part of that memory.  Accumulating
                    the PSIZE values of all processes in the system gives a
                    reliable impression of the total resident memory
                    consumed by all processes.
                    Since gathering of all values that are needed to
                    calculate the PSIZE is a very time-consuming task, the
                    'R' key (or '-R' flag) should be active.  Gathering
                    these values also requires superuser privileges
                    (otherwise '?K' is shown in the output).
           RDDSK    When the kernel maintains standard io statistics (>=
                    2.6.20):
                    The read data transfer issued physically on disk (so
                    reading from the disk cache is not accounted for).
                    Unfortunately, the kernel aggregates the data transfer
                    of a process to the data transfer of its parent process
                    when terminating, so you might see transfers for
                    (parent) processes like cron, bash or init, that are not
                    really issued by them.
           RDELAY   Runqueue delay, i.e. time spent waiting on a runqueue.
           RGID     The real group-id under which the process executes.
           RGROW    The amount of resident memory that the process has grown
                    during the last interval.  A resident growth can be
                    caused by touching memory pages which were not
                    physically created/loaded before (load-on-demand).  Note
                    that a resident growth can also be negative e.g. when
                    part of the process is paged out due to lack of memory
                    or when the process frees dynamically allocated memory.
                    For a process which started during the last interval,
                    the resident growth reflects the total resident size of
                    the process at that moment.
           RSIZE    The total resident memory usage consumed by this process
                    (or user).  Notice that the RSIZE of a process includes
                    all resident memory used by that process, even if
                    certain memory parts are shared with other processes
                    (see also the explanation of PSIZE).
           RTPR     Realtime priority according the POSIX standard.  Value
                    can be 0 for a timesharing process (policy 'norm',
                    'btch' or 'idle') or ranges from 1 (lowest) till 99
                    (highest) for a realtime process (policy 'rr' or
                    'fifo').
           RUID     The real user-id under which the process executes.
           S        The current state of the (main) thread: `R' for running
                    (currently processing or in the runqueue), `S' for
                    sleeping interruptible (wait for an event to occur), `D'
                    for sleeping non-interruptible, `Z' for zombie (waiting
                    to be synchronized with its parent process), `T' for
                    stopped (suspended or traced), `W' for swapping, and `E'
                    (exit) for processes which have finished during the last
                    interval.
           SGID     The saved group-id of the process.
           ST       The status of a process.
                    The first position indicates if the process has been
                    started during the last interval (the value N means 'new
                    process').
                    The second position indicates if the process has been
                    finished during the last interval.
                    The value E means 'exit' on the process' own initiative;
                    the exit code is displayed in the column `EXC'.
                    The value S means that the process has been terminated
                    unvoluntarily by a signal; the signal number is
                    displayed in the in the column `EXC'.
                    The value C means that the process has been terminated
                    unvoluntarily by a signal, producing a core dump in its
                    current directory; the signal number is displayed in the
                    column `EXC'.
           STDATE   The start date of the process.
           STTIME   The start time of the process.
           SUID     The saved user-id of the process.
           SWAPSZ   The swap space consumed by this process (or user).
           SYSCPU   CPU time consumption of this process in system mode
                    (kernel mode), usually due to system call handling.
           TCPRASZ  The average size of a received TCP buffer in bytes.
                    This information will only be shown when the BCC PMDA is
                    active and the `netproc' module is enabled.
           TCPRCV   The number of tcp_recvmsg()/tcp_cleanup_rbuf() calls
                    from this process.  This information will only be shown
                    when the BCC PMDA is active and the `netproc' module is
                    enabled.
           TCPSASZ  The average size of a TCP buffer requested to be
                    transmitted in bytes.  This information will only be
                    shown when the BCC PMDA is active and the `netproc'
                    module is enabled.
           TCPSND   The number of tcp_sendmsg() calls from this process.
                    This information will only be shown when the BCC PMDA is
                    active and the `netproc' module is enabled.
           THR      Total number of threads within this process.  All
                    related threads are contained in a thread group,
                    represented by pcp-atop as one line or as a separate
                    line when the 'y' key (or -y flag) is active.
           TID      Thread-id.  All threads within a process run with the
                    same PID but with a different TID.  This value is shown
                    for individual threads in multi-threaded processes (when
                    using the key 'y').
           TRUN     Number of threads within this process that are in the
                    state 'running' (R).
           TSLPI    Number of threads within this process that are in the
                    state 'interruptible sleeping' (S).
           TSLPU    Number of threads within this process that are in the
                    state 'uninterruptible sleeping' (D).
           UDPRASZ  The average size of a received UDP buffer in bytes.
                    This information will only be shown when the BCC PMDA is
                    active and the `netproc' module is enabled.
           UDPRCV   The number of udp_recvmsg()/skb_consume_udp() calls from
                    this process.  This information will only be shown when
                    the BCC PMDA is active and the `netproc' module is
                    enabled.
           UDPSASZ  The average size of a UDP buffer requested to be
                    transmitted in bytes.  This information will only be
                    shown when the BCC PMDA is active and the `netproc'
                    module is enabled.
           UDPSND   The number of udp_sendmsg() calls from this process.
                    This information will only be shown when the BCC PMDA is
                    active and the `netproc' module is enabled.
           USRCPU   CPU time consumption of this process in user mode, due
                    to processing the own program text.
           VDATA    The virtual memory size of the private data used by this
                    process (including heap and shared library data).
           VGROW    The amount of virtual memory that the process has grown
                    during the last interval. A virtual growth can be caused
                    by e.g. issuing a malloc() or attaching a shared memory
                    segment. Note that a virtual growth can also be negative
                    by e.g. issuing a free() or detaching a shared memory
                    segment.  For a process which started during the last
                    interval, the virtual growth reflects the total virtual
                    size of the process at that moment.
           VPID     Virtual process-id (within an OpenVZ container).  If a
                    process has been started and finished during the last
                    interval, a `?' is shown because the virtual process-id
                    is not part of the standard process accounting record.
           VSIZE    The total virtual memory usage consumed by this process
                    (or user).
           VSLIBS   The virtual memory size of the (shared) text of all
                    shared libraries used by this process.
           VSTACK   The virtual memory size of the (private) stack used by
                    this process
           VSTEXT   The virtual memory size of the (shared) text of the
                    executable program.
           WCHAN    Wait channel of thread in sleep state, i.e. the name of
                    the kernel function in which the thread has been put
                    asleep.
                    Since determining the name string of the kernel function
                    is a relatively time-consuming task, the 'W' key (or
                    '-W' flag) should be active.
           WRDSK    When the kernel maintains standard io statistics (>=
                    2.6.20):
                    The write data transfer issued physically on disk (so
                    writing to the disk cache is not accounted for).  This
                    counter is maintained for the application process that
                    writes its data to the cache (assuming that this data is
                    physically transferred to disk later on).  Notice that
                    disk I/O needed for swapping is not taken into account.
                    Unfortunately, the kernel aggregates the data transfer
                    of a process to the data transfer of its parent process
                    when terminating, so you might see transfers for
                    (parent) processes like cron, bash or init, that are not
                    really issued by them.
           WCANCL   When the kernel maintains standard io statistics (>=
                    2.6.20):
                    The write data transfer previously accounted for this
                    process or another process that has been cancelled.
                    Suppose that a process writes new data to a file and
                    that data is removed again before the cache buffers have
                    been flushed to disk.  Then the original process shows
                    the written data as WRDSK, while the process that
                    removes/truncates the file shows the unflushed removed
                    data as WCANCL.
## PARSEABLE OUTPUT         top
           With the flag -P followed by a list of one or more labels (comma-
           separated), parseable output is produced for each sample.  The
           labels that can be specified for system-level statistics
           correspond to the labels (first verb of each line) that can be
           found in the interactive output: "CPU", "cpu", "CPL", "GPU",
           "MEM", "SWP", "PAG", "PSI", "LVM", "MDD", "DSK", "NFM", "NFC",
           "NFS", "NET", "IFB", "LLC", "NUM" and "NUC".
           For process-level statistics special labels are introduced: "PRG"
           (general), "PRC" (cpu), "PRE" (GPU), "PRM" (memory), "PRD" (disk,
           only if "storage accounting" is active).
           With the label "ALL", all system and process level statistics are
           shown.
           The command and command line in the parseable output might
           contain spaces and are therefore by default surrounded by
           parenthesis. However, since a space is often used as separator
           between the fields by parsing tools, with the additional flag -Z
           it is possible to exchange the spaces in the command (line) by
           underscores and omit the parenthesis.
           For every interval all requested lines are shown whereafter pcp-
           atop shows a line just containing the label "SEP" as a separator
           before the lines for the next sample are generated.
           When a sample contains the values since boot, pcp-atop shows a
           line just containing the label "RESET" before the lines for this
           sample are generated.
           The first part of each output-line consists of the following six
           fields: label (the name of the label), host (the name of this
           machine), epoch (the time of this interval as number of seconds
           since 1-1-1970), date (date of this interval in format
           YYYY/MM/DD), time (time of this interval in format HH:MM:SS), and
           interval (number of seconds elapsed for this interval).
           The subsequent fields of each output-line depend on the label:
           CPU      Subsequent fields: total number of clock-ticks per
                    second for this machine, number of processors,
                    consumption for all CPUs in system mode (clock-ticks),
                    consumption for all CPUs in user mode (clock-ticks),
                    consumption for all CPUs in user mode for niced
                    processes (clock-ticks), consumption for all CPUs in
                    idle mode (clock-ticks), consumption for all CPUs in
                    wait mode (clock-ticks), consumption for all CPUs in irq
                    mode (clock-ticks), consumption for all CPUs in softirq
                    mode (clock-ticks), consumption for all CPUs in steal
                    mode (clock-ticks), consumption for all CPUs in guest
                    mode (clock-ticks) overlapping user mode, frequency of
                    all CPUs and frequency percentage of all CPUs.
           cpu      Subsequent fields: total number of clock-ticks per
                    second for this machine, processor-number, consumption
                    for this CPU in system mode (clock-ticks), consumption
                    for this CPU in user mode (clock-ticks), consumption for
                    this CPU in user mode for niced processes (clock-ticks),
                    consumption for this CPU in idle mode (clock-ticks),
                    consumption for this CPU in wait mode (clock-ticks),
                    consumption for this CPU in irq mode (clock-ticks),
                    consumption for this CPU in softirq mode (clock-ticks),
                    consumption for this CPU in steal mode (clock-ticks),
                    consumption for this CPU in guest mode (clock-ticks)
                    overlapping user mode, frequency of all CPUs, frequency
                    percentage of all CPUs, instructions executed by all
                    CPUs and cycles for all CPUs.
           CPL      Subsequent fields: number of processors, load average
                    for last minute, load average for last five minutes,
                    load average for last fifteen minutes, number of
                    context-switches, and number of device interrupts.
           GPU      Subsequent fields: GPU number, bus-id string, type of
                    GPU string, GPU busy percentage during last second (-1
                    if not available), memory busy percentage during last
                    second (-1 if not available), total memory size (KiB),
                    used memory (KiB) at this moment, number of samples
                    taken during interval, cumulative GPU busy percentage
                    during the interval (to be divided by the number of
                    samples for the average busy percentage, -1 if not
                    available), cumulative memory busy percentage during the
                    interval (to be divided by the number of samples for the
                    average busy percentage, -1 if not available), and
                    cumulative memory occupation during the interval (to be
                    divided by the number of samples for the average
                    occupation).
           MEM      Subsequent fields: page size for this machine (in
                    bytes), size of physical memory (pages), size of free
                    memory (pages), size of page cache (pages), size of
                    buffer cache (pages), size of slab (pages), dirty pages
                    in cache (pages), reclaimable part of slab (pages),
                    total size of vmware's balloon pages (pages), total size
                    of shared memory (pages), size of resident shared memory
                    (pages), size of swapped shared memory (pages), huge
                    page size (in bytes), total size of huge pages (huge
                    pages), size of free huge pages (huge pages), size of
                    ARC (cache) of ZFSonlinux (pages), size of sharing pages
                    for KSM (pages), size of shared pages for KSM (pages),
                    size of memory used for TCP sockets (pages), size of
                    memory used for UDP sockets (pages), and size of
                    pagetables (pages).
           SWP      Subsequent fields: page size for this machine (in
                    bytes), size of swap (pages), size of free swap (pages),
                    size of swap cache (pages), size of committed space
                    (pages), limit for committed space (pages), size of the
                    swap cache (pages), size of compressed pages stored in
                    zswap (pages), and total size of compressed pool in
                    zswap (pages).
           PAG      Subsequent fields: page size for this machine (in
                    bytes), number of page scans, number of allocstalls, 0
                    (future use), number of swapins, number of swapouts,
                    number of oomkills (-1 when counter not present), number
                    of process stalls to run memory compaction, number of
                    pages successfully migrated in total, number of NUMA
                    pages migrated, number of pages read from block devices,
                    and number of pages written to block devices.
           PSI      Subsequent fields: PSI statistics present on this system
                    (n or y), CPU some avg10, CPU some avg60, CPU some
                    avg300, CPU some accumulated microseconds during
                    interval, memory some avg10, memory some avg60, memory
                    some avg300, memory some accumulated microseconds during
                    interval, memory full avg10, memory full avg60, memory
                    full avg300, memory full accumulated microseconds during
                    interval, I/O some avg10, I/O some avg60, I/O some
                    avg300, I/O some accumulated microseconds during
                    interval, I/O full avg10, I/O full avg60, I/O full
                    avg300, and I/O full accumulated microseconds during
                    interval.
           LVM/MDD/DSK
                    For every logical volume/multiple device/hard disk one
                    line is shown.
                    Subsequent fields: name, number of milliseconds spent
                    for I/O, number of reads issued, number of sectors
                    transferred for reads, number of writes issued, number
                    of sectors transferred for write, number of discards
                    issued (-1 if not supported), number of sectors
                    transferred for discards, number of requests currently
                    in flight (not yet completed), and the average queue
                    depth while the disk was busy.
           NFM      Subsequent fields: mounted NFS filesystem, total number
                    of bytes read, total number of bytes written, number of
                    bytes read by normal system calls, number of bytes
                    written by normal system calls, number of bytes read by
                    direct I/O, number of bytes written by direct I/O,
                    number of pages read by memory-mapped I/O, and number of
                    pages written by memory-mapped I/O.
           NFC      Subsequent fields: number of transmitted RPCs, number of
                    transmitted read RPCs, number of transmitted write RPCs,
                    number of RPC retransmissions, and number of
                    authorization refreshes.
           NFS      Subsequent fields: number of handled RPCs, number of
                    received read RPCs, number of received write RPCs,
                    number of bytes read by clients, number of bytes written
                    by clients, number of RPCs with bad format, number of
                    RPCs with bad authorization, number of RPCs from bad
                    client, total number of handled network requests, number
                    of handled network requests via TCP, number of handled
                    network requests via UDP, number of handled TCP
                    connections, number of hits on reply cache, number of
                    misses on reply cache, and number of uncached requests.
           NET      First, one line is produced for the upper layers of the
                    TCP/IP stack.
                    Subsequent fields: the verb "upper", number of packets
                    received by TCP, number of packets transmitted by TCP,
                    number of packets received by UDP, number of packets
                    transmitted by UDP, number of packets received by IP,
                    number of packets transmitted by IP, number of packets
                    delivered to higher layers by IP, number of packets
                    forwarded by IP, number of input errors (UDP), number of
                    noport errors (UDP), number of active opens (TCP),
                    number of passive opens (TCP), number of passive opens
                    (TCP), number of established connections at this moment
                    (TCP), number of retransmitted segments (TCP), number of
                    input errors (TCP), and number of output resets (TCP).
                    Next, one line is shown for every interface.
                    Subsequent fields: name of the interface, number of
                    packets received by the interface, number of bytes
                    received by the interface, number of packets transmitted
                    by the interface, number of bytes transmitted by the
                    interface, interface speed, and duplex mode (0=half,
                    1=full).
           IFB      Subsequent fields: name of the InfiniBand interface,
                    port number, number of lanes, maximum rate (Mbps),
                    number of bytes received, number of bytes transmitted,
                    number of packets received, and number of packets
                    transmitted.
           NUM      Subsequent fields: NUMA node number, page size for this
                    machine (in bytes), the fragmentation percentage of this
                    node, size of physical memory (pages), size of free
                    memory (pages), recently (active) used memory (pages),
                    less recently (inactive) used memory (pages), size of
                    cached file data (pages), dirty pages in cache (pages),
                    slab memory being used for kernel mallocs (pages), slab
                    memory that is reclaimable (pages), shared memory
                    including tmpfs (pages), and total huge pages (pages).
           NUC      Subsequent fields: NUMA node number, number of
                    processors for this node, consumption for node CPUs in
                    system mode (clock-ticks), consumption for node CPUs in
                    user mode (clock-ticks), consumption for node CPUs in
                    user mode for niced processes (clock-ticks), consumption
                    for node CPUs in idle mode (clock-ticks), consumption
                    for node CPUs in wait mode (clock-ticks), consumption
                    for node CPUs in irq mode (clock-ticks), consumption for
                    node CPUs in softirq mode (clock-ticks), consumption for
                    node CPUs in steal mode (clock-ticks), and consumption
                    for node CPUs in guest mode (clock-ticks) overlapping
                    user mode.
           PRG      For every process one line is shown.
                    Subsequent fields: PID (unique ID of task), name
                    (between parenthesis or underscores for spaces), state,
                    real uid, real gid, TGID (group number of related
                    tasks/threads), total number of threads, exit code (in
                    case of fatal signal: signal number + 256), start time
                    (epoch), full command line (between parenthesis or
                    underscores for spaces), PPID, number of threads in
                    state 'running' (R), number of threads in state
                    'interruptible sleeping' (S), number of threads in state
                    'uninterruptible sleeping' (D), effective uid, effective
                    gid, saved uid, saved gid, filesystem uid, filesystem
                    gid, elapsed time of terminated process (hertz),
                    is_process (y/n), OpenVZ  virtual pid (VPID), OpenVZ
                    container id (CTID), Container id (CID), indication if
                    the task is newly started during this interval ('N'),
                    and cgroup v2 path name (between parenthesis or
                    underscores for spaces).
           PRC      For every process one line is shown.
                    Subsequent fields: PID, name (between parenthesis or
                    underscores for spaces), state, total number of clock-
                    ticks per second for this machine, CPU-consumption in
                    user mode (clockticks), CPU-consumption in system mode
                    (clockticks), nice value, priority, realtime priority,
                    scheduling policy, current CPU, sleep average, TGID
                    (group number of related tasks/threads), is_process
                    (y/n), runqueue delay in nanoseconds for this thread or
                    for all threads (in case of process), wait channel of
                    this thread (between parenthesis or underscores for
                    spaces), block I/O delay (clockticks).
           PRE      For every process one line is shown.
                    Subsequent fields: PID, name (between parenthesis or
                    underscores for spaces), process state, GPU state (A for
                    active, E for exited, N for no GPU user), number of GPUs
                    used by this process, bitlist reflecting used GPUs, GPU
                    busy percentage during interval, memory busy percentage
                    during interval, memory occupation (KiB) at this moment
                    cumulative memory occupation (KiB) during interval, and
                    number of samples taken during interval.
           PRM      For every process one line is shown.
                    Subsequent fields: PID, name (between parenthesis or
                    underscores for spaces), state, page size for this
                    machine (in bytes), virtual memory size (Kbytes),
                    resident memory size (Kbytes), shared text memory size
                    (Kbytes), virtual memory growth (Kbytes), resident
                    memory growth (Kbytes), number of minor page faults,
                    number of major page faults, virtual library exec size
                    (Kbytes), virtual data size (Kbytes), virtual stack size
                    (Kbytes), swap space used (Kbytes), TGID (group number
                    of related tasks/threads), is_process (y/n),
                    proportional set size (Kbytes) if in 'R' option is
                    specified and virtually locked memory space (Kbytes).
           PRD      For every process one line is shown.
                    Subsequent fields: PID, name (between parenthesis or
                    underscores for spaces), state, obsoleted kernel patch
                    installed ('n'), standard io statistics used ('y' or
                    'n'), number of reads on disk, cumulative number of
                    sectors read, number of writes on disk, cumulative
                    number of sectors written, cancelled number of written
                    sectors, TGID (group number of related tasks/threads),
                    obsoleted value ('n'), and is_process (y/n).
                    If the standard I/O statistics (>= 2.6.20) are not used,
                    the disk I/O counters per process are not relevant.  The
                    counters 'number of reads on disk' and 'number of writes
                    on disk' are obsoleted anyhow.
           PRN      For every process one line is shown.
                    Subsequent fields: PID, name (between parenthesis or
                    underscores for spaces), state, pmdabcc(1) module
                    `netproc' loaded ('y' or 'n'), number of tcp_sendmsg()
                    calls, cumulative size of TCP buffers requested to be
                    transmitted, number of tcp_recvmsg()/tcp_cleanup_rbuf()
                    calls, cumulative size of TCP buffers received, number
                    of udp_sendmsg() calls, cumulative size of UDP buffers
                    requested to be transmitted, number of
                    udp_recvmsg()/skb_consume_udp() calls, cumulative size
                    of UDP buffers transmitted, number of raw packets
                    transmitted (obsolete, always 0), number of raw packets
                    received (obsolete, always 0), TGID (group number of
                    related tasks/threads) and is_process (y/n).
## SIGNALS         top
           By sending the SIGUSR1 signal to pcp-atop a new sample will be
           forced, even if the current timer interval has not exceeded yet.
           The behavior is similar to pressing the `t` key in an interactive
           session.
           By sending the SIGUSR2 signal to pcp-atop a final sample will be
           forced after which pcp-atop will terminate.
## EXAMPLES         top
           To monitor the current system load interactively with an interval
           of 5 seconds:
             pcp atop 5
           To monitor the system load and write it to a file (in plain
           ASCII) with an interval of one minute during half an hour with
           active processes sorted on memory consumption:
             pcp atop -M 60 30 > /log/pcp-atop.mem
           Store information about the system and process activity in a PCP
           archive folio with an interval of ten minutes during an hour:
             pcp atop -w /tmp/pcp-atop 600 6
           View the contents of this file interactively:
             pcp atop -r /tmp/pcp-atop
           View the processor and disk utilization of this file in parseable
           format:
             pcp atop -PCPU,DSK -r /tmp/pcp-atop.folio
           View the contents of today's standard logfile interactively:
             pcp atop -r
           View the contents of the standard logfile of the day before
           yesterday interactively:
             pcp atop -r yy
           View the contents of the standard logfile of 2014, June 7 from
           02:00 PM onwards interactively:
             pcp atop -r 20140607 -b 14:00
## NOTES         top
           pcp-atop is based on the source code of the atop(1) command from
           https://atoptool.nl , maintained by Gerlof Langeveld
           (gerlof.langeveld@atoptool.nl), and aims to be command line and
           output compatible with it as much as possible.  Some features of
           that atop command are not available in pcp-atop.
           Some features of pcp-atop (such as reporting on the Apache HTTP
           daemon, Infiniband, NFS client mounts, hardware event counts, GPU
           statistics and per-process TCP and UDP statistics) are only
           activated if the corresonding PCP metrics are available. Refer to
           the documentation for pmdaapache(1), pmdainfiniband(1),
           pmdanfsclient(1), pmdanvidia(1), pmdaperfevent(1) and pmdabcc(1)
           for further details on activating these metrics.
           The semantics of the per-process network statistics deviate
           slightly from the atop(1) tool: instead of the number of TCP/UDP
           packets sent/received (which may be inaccurate due to TCP
           segmentation offload), pcp-atop shows the number of
           tcp_sendmsg()/udp_sendmsg()/etc. kernel calls per process.
## FILES         top
           /etc/atoprc
                Configuration file containing system-wide default values.
                See related man-page.
           ~/.atoprc
                Configuration file containing personal default values.  See
                related man-page.
## PCP ENVIRONMENT         top
           Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to
           parameterize the file and directory names used by PCP.  On each
           installation, the file /etc/pcp.conf contains the local values
           for these variables.  The $PCP_CONF variable may be used to
           specify an alternative configuration file, as described in
           pcp.conf(5).
           For environment variables affecting PCP tools, see
           pmGetOptions(3).
## SEE ALSO         top
           PCPIntro(1), pcp(1), pcp-atopsar(1), pmdaapache(1), pmdabcc(1),
           pmdainfiniband(1), pmdanfsclient(1), pmdanvidia(1), pmdaproc(1),
           mkaf(1), pmlogger(1), pmlogger_daily(1) and pcp-atoprc(5).
## COLOPHON         top
           This page is part of the PCP (Performance Co-Pilot) project.
           Information about the project can be found at 
           http://www.pcp.io/.  If you have a bug report for this manual
           page, send it to pcp@groups.io.  This page was obtained from the
           project's upstream Git repository
           https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp.git on 2023-06-23.
           (At that time, the date of the most recent commit that was found
           in the repository was 2023-06-21.)  If you discover any rendering
           problems in this HTML version of the page, or you believe there
           is a better or more up-to-date source for the page, or you have
           corrections or improvements to the information in this COLOPHON
           (which is not part of the original manual page), send a mail to
           man-pages@man7.org
    Performance Co-Pilot               PCP                       PCP-ATOP(1)
* * *
Pages that refer to this page: pcp-atopsar(1),  pmafm(1),  pmdanvidia(1),
pmrep(1),  pcp-atoprc(5)
* * *
* * *
HTML rendering created 2023-06-24 by Michael Kerrisk, author of The Linux
Programming Interface.
For details of in-depth Linux/UNIX system programming training courses that I
teach, look here.
Hosting by jambit GmbH.  
* * *